README.md, before:

## CE2001 - Algorithms Project 2
This repository contains our solution and utility scripts for Lab Project 2 of `CE2001 Algorithms`. This project requires us to find the distance and path to the top `k` nearest hospitals in an undirected unweighted graph with `h` hospitals.

We implemented Multi Source Breadth-First search to find the top-`k` nearest hospitals given two input files containing a list of edges and a list of hospitals.

- `2001.jar`:
  - Exported `.jar` of the search algorithm
  - `java -jar 2001.jar edges.txt hospitals.txt k [--out outfile.txt] [--include-path]`
    - `edges.txt`: input file containing edges in the format
      ```
      0 1
      1 0
      1 2
      2 1
      ```
    - `hospitals.txt`: input file containing hospitals in the format
      ```
      # 1
      1
      ```
    - `k`: number of nearest hospitals to compute paths to
    - `--out outfile.txt`: name of file to write output data to. defaults to writing just distance to hospitals
    - `--include-paths`: specify this to write full path data to `outfile.txt`
  - output file example (`--include-path`):
    ```
    Vertex id=2 11(1) [2-11], 13(3) [2-59-16-13], 40(4) [2-11-20-56-40]
    ```
    Top 3 nearest hospitals to Vertex id=2:
    1. Distance 1 to `Vertex id=11`, through vertices `2-11`
    2. Distance 3 to `Vertex id=13`, through vertices `2-59-16-13`
    3. Distance 4 to `Vertex id=40`, through vertices `2-11-20-56-40`
  - output file example (without `--include-path`):
    ```
    Vertex id=2 11(1), 13(3), 40(4)
    ```
- `algorithm-eclipse/`: Eclipse project for algorithm implementation
- `empirical-study/`: Python scripts for empirical analysis
  - `exec_measure.py`:
    - `python3 exec_measure.py <outfile>.json`
    - Used to execute empirical measurements of execution time of the algorithm
  - `measure.py`: contains functions called by `exec_measure.py`
  - `viz_measure.py`:
    - `python3 viz_measure.py stats.json`
    - Used to plot a 3D graph based on the `.json` file generated by `exec_measure`
  - `2001.jar`:
    - Exported `.jar` of the algorithm, called by `measure.py`
- `graphgen/`:
  - `gen.py`:
    - `python3 gen.py num_vertices degree output_edges.txt output_hospitals.txt correct.json graph.png`
      - `python3 gen.py 100 3 edges.txt hospitals.txt correct.json graph.png`
      - `num_vertices`: number of vertices to generate
      - `degree`: degree (number of edges on each vertice)
      - `output_edges.txt`: name of file to write edges to
      - `output_hospitals.txt`: name of file to write hospitals to
      - `correct.json`: name of file to write the correct paths to
      - `graph.png`: name of file to write graph as an image to
    - Generates graphs with specified parameters and computes model answer naively (all shortest paths, then sort)
  - `compare.py`:
    - `python3 compare.py correct.json output.txt`
      - `correct.json`: from `gen.py`
      - `output.txt`: output from the search algorithm (ran with `--include-paths`)
    - Compares model answer and output from the search algorithm
  - `gen_hospitals.py`:
    - `python3 gen_hospitals.py edges.txt num_hospitals hospitals.txt`
      - `edges.txt`: input edges file
      - `num_hospitals`: number of hospitals
      - `hospitals.txt`: name of file to write hospitals to
    - Randomly select `num_hospitals` nodes from `edges.txt` and write them to `hospitals.txt`
- `visualisation/`:
  - `gen_viz.py`:
    - Generate and print graph data
  - `viz.html`:
    - Interactive demonstration of the search algorithm implemented
- `requirements.txt`:
  - `pip` requirements for the Python scripts included in this repository. Note that the scripts were developed/executed on Python 3.8.



****

Commit message:

Update readme.md to include information about the output files

README.md, after:

## CE2001 - Algorithms Project 2
This repository contains our solution and utility scripts for Lab Project 2 of `CE2001 Algorithms`. This project requires us to find the distance and path to the top `k` nearest hospitals in an undirected unweighted graph with `h` hospitals.

We implemented Multi Source Breadth-First search to find the top-`k` nearest hospitals given two input files containing a list of edges and a list of hospitals.

- `2001.jar`:
  - Exported `.jar` of the search algorithm
  - `java -jar 2001.jar edges.txt hospitals.txt k [--out outfile.txt] [--include-path]`
    - `edges.txt`: input file containing edges in the format
      ```
      0 1
      1 0
      1 2
      2 1
      ```
    - `hospitals.txt`: input file containing hospitals in the format
      ```
      # 1
      1
      ```
    - `k`: number of nearest hospitals to compute paths to
    - `--out outfile.txt`: name of file to write output data to. defaults to writing just distance to hospitals
    - `--include-paths`: specify this to write full path data to `outfile.txt`
  - output file example (`--include-path`):
    ```
    Vertex id=2 11(1) [2-11], 13(3) [2-59-16-13], 40(4) [2-11-20-56-40]
    ```
    Top 3 nearest hospitals to Vertex id=2:
    1. Distance 1 to `Vertex id=11`, through vertices `2-11`
    2. Distance 3 to `Vertex id=13`, through vertices `2-59-16-13`
    3. Distance 4 to `Vertex id=40`, through vertices `2-11-20-56-40`
  - output file example (without `--include-path`):
    ```
    Vertex id=2 11(1), 13(3), 40(4)
    ```
- `output/`:
  - `roadNet/`:
    - `*.zip` contains the output from running our algorithms on the respective input files, with `roadNet-AREA-hospitals.txt` each containing 256 hospitals randomly selected from the input files. The input files have not been added into the repository and can be downloaded from https://snap.stanford.edu/data/index.html#road.
  - `testcase/`:
    - Contains test case generated with the scripts in `graphgen/`.
    - `algo_output.txt` and `algo_output_full.txt` is the output from running our algorithm on the test case.
- `algorithm-eclipse/`: Eclipse project for algorithm implementation
- `empirical-study/`: Python scripts for empirical analysis
  - `exec_measure.py`:
    - `python3 exec_measure.py <outfile>.json`
    - Used to execute empirical measurements of execution time of the algorithm
  - `measure.py`: contains functions called by `exec_measure.py`
  - `viz_measure.py`:
    - `python3 viz_measure.py stats.json`
    - Used to plot a 3D graph based on the `.json` file generated by `exec_measure`
  - `2001.jar`:
    - Exported `.jar` of the algorithm, called by `measure.py`
- `graphgen/`:
  - `gen.py`:
    - `python3 gen.py num_vertices degree output_edges.txt output_hospitals.txt correct.json graph.png`
      - `python3 gen.py 100 3 edges.txt hospitals.txt correct.json graph.png`
      - `num_vertices`: number of vertices to generate
      - `degree`: degree (number of edges on each vertice)
      - `output_edges.txt`: name of file to write edges to
      - `output_hospitals.txt`: name of file to write hospitals to
      - `correct.json`: name of file to write the correct paths to
      - `graph.png`: name of file to write graph as an image to
    - Generates graphs with specified parameters and computes model answer naively (all shortest paths, then sort)
  - `compare.py`:
    - `python3 compare.py correct.json output.txt`
      - `correct.json`: from `gen.py`
      - `output.txt`: output from the search algorithm (ran with `--include-paths`)
    - Compares model answer and output from the search algorithm
  - `gen_hospitals.py`:
    - `python3 gen_hospitals.py edges.txt num_hospitals hospitals.txt`
      - `edges.txt`: input edges file
      - `num_hospitals`: number of hospitals
      - `hospitals.txt`: name of file to write hospitals to
    - Randomly select `num_hospitals` nodes from `edges.txt` and write them to `hospitals.txt`
- `visualisation/`:
  - `gen_viz.py`:
    - Generate and print graph data
  - `viz.html`:
    - Interactive demonstration of the search algorithm implemented
- `requirements.txt`:
  - `pip` requirements for the Python scripts included in this repository. Note that the scripts were developed on Python 3.8.
